[kie-kogito-examples-2041] [sonataflow] Implement a getting started example for operator use case (#2042)
apache/incubator-kie-kogito-examples: serverless-operator-examples/serverless-workflow-get-random-catfact/README.md

# {product_name} Operator - Get Random Cat Fact Example

## Description

The goal of this example is to showcase use of [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) for local development and subsequent deployment of finished {product_name} application.

### Use Case

This example is doing basic decision based on input provided to the workflow. If the input matches a string, workflow will query a specific endpoint and store the result, otherwise it uses a static string.
The example contains workflow definition, necessary application.properties and an openAPI spec file to be able to query external service.

### Prerequisites

> 1. Install [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html)

Author: There is an installation guide we are adding in PR in docs, will update with that.

> 1. Install [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html)

Author: This needs to be fixed on docs, side will take a look and fix later.

2. Install the [Operator](https://kiegroup.github.io/kogito-docs/serverlessworkflow/latest/cloud/operator/install-serverless-operator.html)
3. Checkout this example locally

### Run the example in local environment

In order to ensure the developed workflows does what it is meant to do, `run` command allows users to spin up a container in development mode on localhost. A [management console](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-overview.html) is available for users to play with the workflows.

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example
2. Execute `kn workflow run`
3. Navigate to `http://localhost:8080/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows` to access the management console
4. You can modify the project, any changes will be detected and the container will update

### Deploy the example to cluster

> Once the workflow is stable and working, `deploy` command allows users to create deployments of the workflow on the targetted cluster. To deploy a workflow application, [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) relies on configuration in `<home_directory>/.kube/config`. If you cluster has managed access, users need to login prior to the use of CLI.

Author: ```suggestion
Once the workflow is doing what it is expected to do, the `deploy` command allows users to create deployments of the workflow on the targeted cluster. To deploy a workflow application, [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) relies on configuration in `<home_directory>/.kube/config`. If you cluster has managed access, users need to login prior to the use of CLI. 

Please note that by default, the `deploy` command deploys the workflow in `dev` mode. This mode allows you to examine the deployment in actual k8s cluster environment, with same development features as `run` command does locally. Follow the guide to understand how to deploy the workflow in different modes, suitable for post-development scenarios.
```

@wmedvede wdyt?

1. Create a namespace for your deployment `oc create namespace catfactexample`
2. Navigate to the root directory of the example
3. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample`

> 4. Access your cluster, you should see new deployment in `catfactexample` namespace

Author: ```suggestion
4. Access your cluster, you should see new deployment in `catfactexample` namespace and note the <WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL>  of the deployment.
```

> 5. Management console can be accessed on the `<WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL>/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows`

Author: Suggestion above, wdyt?

> 5. Management console can be accessed on the `<WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL>/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows`

Author: if a user does not know how to obtain a route of deployment in minikube/kind then it is their problem imho.
Also adding extra steps on how to do this on minikube and kind is something I refuse to add and maintain.

> 5. Management console can be accessed on the `<WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL>/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows`

Reviewer: in other examples we do, anyway.

> 5. Management console can be accessed on the `<WORKFLOW_GENERATED_ROUTE_URL>/q/dev-ui/org.apache.kie.sonataflow.sonataflow-quarkus-devui/workflows`

Reviewer 2: @domhanak just link to this tutorial: https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/accessing/ and https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/ingress/

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests`
3. Navigate to the `/.manifests` folder and modify the files.
4. Navigate to root directory of the example.
5. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-manifests-dir=./manifests`

Another option is to use `gen-manifest` to create the Kubernetes manifests, run `kn workflow gen-manifest --help` to see the documentation for this command. The procedure to deploy is as follows:

1. Navigate to the root directory of the example.
2. Execute `kn workflow gen-manifest -n catfactexample --profile=preview --custom-generated-manifests-dir=./manifests`
3. Execute `kn workflow deploy -n catfactexample --custom-manifests-dir=./manifests`
4. The workflow is now deployed with `sonataflow.org/profile: preview` annotation.

Once the application is deployed, you can trigger the workflows. This is as simple as sending a

> HTTP POST request to the endpoint of your workflow application. For example `curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' -d '{"fact":"random"}' http://<URL_TO_HOST>/getcatfactinformation` where `URL_TO_HOST` depends on the environment you are in.

Author: But yea, will add a note with something like ` in preview mode the route is not longer generated, it is up to the user if he wants to expose the workflow`

> HTTP POST request to the endpoint of your workflow application. For example `curl -X POST -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -H 'Accept: application/json' -d '{"fact":"random"}' http://<URL_TO_HOST>/getcatfactinformation` where `URL_TO_HOST` depends on the environment you are in.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to make clear the differences between `preview` and `devmode`.

# {product_name} Operator - Get Random Cat Fact Example

## Description

> The goal of this example is to showcase use of [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html) for local development and subsequent deployment of finished {product_name} application.

Reviewer 2: How do we replace `{product_name}` in this file?

### Use Case

This example is doing basic decision based on input provided to the workflow. If the input matches a string, workflow will query a specific endpoint and store the result, otherwise it uses a static string.
The example contains workflow definition, necessary application.properties and an openAPI spec file to be able to query external service.

### Prerequisites

1. Install [{product_name} plugin for Knative CLI](https://sonataflow.org/serverlessworkflow/main/testing-and-troubleshooting/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.html)

> 2. Install the [Operator](https://kiegroup.github.io/kogito-docs/serverlessworkflow/latest/cloud/operator/install-serverless-operator.html)

Author: yea forgot to update, thanks
